There are some exercises
that go with this project.
It's the Deno exercises repository.
As you're going through it, if you
just clone it, let's go over here and
take a look at it.
What you'll see in here is a bunch of
branches, and if you're using PS code,
you can just, once you sign in you
can see all the branches down here.
And these branches respond to
the different sections that we'll be in.
And so as we go through the different
exercises, what you'll see is at the top,
it'll say, switch to this branch to
follow along with this exercise.
In the beginning, mostly all that's
gonna do is reset the project.
That's it, because for
a long time we're just gonna be
working basically with one file.
But when we get to the sections later on
in the course where we're gonna look at
building a simple web server.
And then we're gonna look at building
with a framework called Oak.
Those sections build on each other, and
you're gonna wanna be able
to move through those.
And so as you move through those,
we can take a look at one of
these later on branches here.
So let's take a look at
like Oak templates here.
You can see there's an exercise folder,
which you'll be working in, and
then there's a solution folder as
well which has the completed code.
And so if anytime you get stuck, you can
just jump into the solution folder, and
that contains the solution for
that particular section.
But I'll assume that everybody's gonna be
working inside of this exercise folder.
Let's talk for a minute about development
containers because there is one in here.
So this is a bonus, this is for free.
If you go to the main branch,
there is a devcontainer folder.
And this devcontainer folder specifies
something called
the development container.
If you have Docker installed, and if you
have the remote development extension,
or remote containers extension for
Visual Studio code.
It's just called remote
containers right here,
then you can open this Deno exercises.
I'm gonna mispronounce that all day,
by doing let's see,
rebuild an opening container.
And what happens is Visual Studio code
uses Docker, and I've already created
a Deno container for you that has
everything that you need inside of it.
So you'd actually don't even need to
install Deno, this should just work.
But it'll start a devcontainer here.
And then you can work
inside of that container.
So this is something you can try if you
have Docker installed, and you wanna
do do remote containers, you don't wanna
install Deno on your local machine.
And then once you're in,
you can see that Deno's installed here.
And that should just work for you.
So that's the devcontainer.
And that might make things
a little bit easier for you, or
you can just install Deno and
use it locally.
Okay, that's the exercises.
Let's go ahead and get started,
and talk about Deno.
So let's talk about the what and
the why of Deno here first.
Deno is a command line runtime for
JavaScript.
That's what it is.
And this means that it allows JavaScript
to run outside of the browser.
And sometimes we refer to this
as JavaScript on the server.
You'll hear people say that.
What it is, is it allows JavaScript to
do very IO type things like reading and
writing to files, or working with streams,
or making HTTP requests.
Basically the runtime freeze
JavaScript from the browser and
allows you to use it like you would,
Java or C#, or
any other programming language
that simply runs on this system.
If you've been writing JavaScript for
a while, you're probably familiar with
an existing runtime that does this,
and that's called node.
Deno.
Deno, [LAUGH] did it again.
Deno is an anagram for node,
and I'm sure that the node folks don't
appreciate me rearranging their logo.
This is not official.
This is just to hammer home.
That this is where Deno comes from.
It literally is the letters node
rearranged to make a different word.
And this is not an inconsequential detail.
If you were gonna build
a completely new runtime for
JavaScript, why would you use
the name node intentionally,
and just mix up the letters?
If it's not node, then why wouldn't you
call it something entirely different?
This is an important question.
And in order to understand it,
we have to first ask a different question,
which is why do we actually need
another JavaScript runtime?
If you've been in technology for
any amount of time or even if you're just
getting in, you've probably noticed
that things move very, very quickly.
And nowhere do they move more quickly
than in the world of JavaScript.
It seems like there's a new library or
a new framework every month.
And yesterday's best practices
are today's anti patterns.
It's incredibly frustrating to try
to keep up with all that because
you feel like you're always behind.
My gut reaction to hearing about Deno was,
please no.
And the reason for that is that I already
no node, I've worked with it a lot.
I'm very comfortable with NPM.
Very comfortable with
the concepts of node.
I've spent much of my career
getting to know node.
I spend my day-to-day at Microsoft trying
to make node work better on Azure.
And now you're telling me that
there's a new JavaScript runtime.
I mean, node and NPM are so
critical to JavaScript developers.
And if you don't believe that,
just look Microsoft or
GitHub's recent acquisition of
NPM which is owned by Microsoft.
So I mean, I'm open to new ideas.
But I think that if we're gonna do it,
they have to solve a major problem.
It can't just be, also me kind of thing,
I wanna do it, too.
What enormous benefits does it provide
us over what we're doing right now?
Because the constant switching of
technologies is a really fantastic way to
accrue massive amounts of technical debt.
We really don't want to do that.
It's fine to learn new things,
but in the day-to-day,
what we wanna do is standardize and
stay consistent.
Otherwise, we just end up with
a smattering of projects written in all
types of languages.
And we're always refactoring,
trying to keep up.
Deno was created by Ryan Dahl.
Ryan is the same person who created node.
And Ryan points out that when
he initially created node,
he was just obsessed with IO operations.
And in specifically,
he was frustrated with the predominant web
server at that time, which was Apache, and
its inability to handle large
numbers of concurrent HTTP requests.
And so he talks about how he became
obsessed with optimizing IO,
in the fact that at the time,
the prominent paradigm for
coding languages was that they
were sequential in nature.
Which is that on a web server
code executes top to bottom.
And if some operational on the way,
it takes a long time, the entire thing is
hung up waiting on that specific operation
to execute before the next one would.
And that could make things perform poorly.
And so all of this to say that
when Ryan initially created node,
he was trying to create a highly
performant HTTP server.
And he accomplished that goal.
In 2012, Ryan left the project
because he considered node to be done.
So let that sink in for
a moment because today, it's 2020 now and
we know that node has changed
significantly since 2012, a lot.
It's been eight years and that's been
enough time for Ryan to reflect there, and
there are now many things that he
says that he regrets about node.
There's this video here,
a talk that he gives called 10
Things That I Regret About Nodes,
that I highly recommend watching.
I'm gonna cover some of the ideas that he
lays out in that video because it's very
important to understand why he
made the decisions that he made,
and it will inform why Deno
is the way that it is.
I think, hindsight it's always 2020,
no software is perfect.
JavaScript is not perfect.
PHP is not perfect.
Java is not perfect, C# is not perfect.
The projects that we
create are not perfect.
When we're building software of any
kind or a language, we're sort of
prognosticating about the future, and
there's so many things that we don't know.
And what we do is we make
educated guesses, and
we architect things based on the unknown.
And when we look back,
we always look at a project and be like,
I wish I had done that differently.
Everyone does this.
I don't know that there's anyone who's
ever written something and been like,
that's perfect.
There are no mistakes in that.
I nailed it.
I just don't think that that happens.
And so, the regrets,
while regret is not normally a good thing.
In this context it helps us
understand why Deno exists.
So Deno is Ryan's second attempt at
creating a command line runtime for
JavaScript.
And it is based on the mistakes
that he feels like were made when
he built node now that he knows and can
look back with the hindsight to do that.
And that's why it's an anagram.
That's why it's an anagram because
it is directly related to node.
So to say that Deno has nothing to
do with node is simply not true.
It absolutely does.
It is intentionally meant by Ryan to
perfect the ideas that he really had
with node while fixing some of the things
that he considers to be flaws with node.
And when we understand those regrets,
then the audit teams of Deno make a whole
lot more sense because it is odd.